[Music]
hi and welcome to ingredient challenge
with me Rosie Burkett for BBC good food
in this episode I've been challenged to
cook with tinned tomatoes and I'm going
to be cooking a spicy spaghetti with
Sharief Oh purple sprouting broccoli and
a crispy caper craw
[Music]
let me talk you through the ingredients
that we've got so we've got a tin of
tomatoes 50 grams or there abouts of
just stale bread crumbs that I've
blitzed up from some leftover sourdough
some purple sprouting broccoli about 30
grams of chorizo half a red onion
originally a couple of cloves of garlic
sandpapers about a teaspoon of sugar
about a tablespoon of mascarpone and
then about 180 grams of spaghetti I
really love doing crispy bread crumbs to
go with spaghetti in any kind of pasta
because it adds crunch it adds a kind of
different flavor and I'm gonna flavor
this crumb with capers which is another
favorite to go with particularly with
tomato based sweet tomato sauces with
pasta so this is how you make the crumb
I've got about a tablespoon of just
capers that we're in some brine in the
fridge and I'm just gonna chop them up
so you want to kind of finely chop them
and what we're gonna do is we're gonna
fry these capers and a little bit of
olive oil till they go a little bit dry
and crispy and then we're going to toast
the bread crumbs in the pan with them as
well and then this is going to go over
the top of the pasta a bit like you
might use parmesan finely chop the
capers like that
and then he took probably about two
tablespoons of olive oil get the capers
in the oil one of these capers to infuse
the oil and go nice and crunchy and they
start to warm up and they will spit
because they've got quite a lot of
moisture in them they just stand back
slightly get nice and crispy so I'm
gonna add in the breadcrumbs you just
want to coat the crumbs in the oil and
the capers right so these will take a
few minutes to toast and you really you
want to start feeling them getting nice
and crunchy and your fees feel that on
your pants and on the edge of your spoon
or spatula whatever you're using these
are a couple of what maybe about a
minute off now you can see how lovely
and crunchy and delicious they are just
onto some kitchen towel just to absorb
any excess oil
finely chop a red onion I like it in
slices sort of Halfmoon slices like this
and then finely chop a Chile I'm gonna
leave the seeds in because I like this
to be really spicy but if you're less
less eventually head that just
reinforces garlic and just chop up your
rosemary as well you could use dried
rosemary if you haven't got any fresh
rosemary or a bit of thyme or oregano
dried Oregon it would also be good and
then I've just got this chorizo I'm
gonna take it out of its skin and it's
lovely and soft and then I'm just going
to break it up lightly this is gonna
bring such lovely sweetness smokiness
from the smoked paprika and lots of nice
fat and flavor so I'm just gonna have
roughly kind of chop that up
and we're using it really is a kind of
seasoning rather than as a protein right
so we're gonna fry these ingredients in
a couple of tablespoons of olive oil and
then we'll add in the tin Tomatoes and
while the sauce is reducing that's when
we're going to cook our spaghetti and
our purple sprouting broccoli so
everything into the olive oil a couple
of tablespoons and what you want is for
the chorizo to melt down into the oil
and release all its lovely flavors and
spices
and this all just smelled amazing
already you're going to cook this for
about five minutes until everything's
kind of soft and tender and the oils
infused with all the flavors so this has
all been cooking gently together just
for a few minutes and you can see that
the chorizo has released its oil and the
onion has softened in that oil with the
olive oil and everything is looking
really really good
and aromatic and lovely and it's at this
point that we want to add in the tin
tomatoes so and I've been stirring
everything constantly that's important
so that nothing catches and then you
just see that when you've had in the
tomatoes everything comes together
really nicely and then we just want to
leave this cooking gently while we cook
our pasta and our purple sprouts and
broccoli just keep on cooking it and
stirring it and it's gonna reduce down
and become really lovely and rich
alright so we've got a big pan of
boiling salted water here and we're just
going to the first of all blanch our
broccoli
I've got purple sprouting broccoli but
you could use tender stem or failing
that just any other property that you
might have I'm using the leaves as well
right so the broccoli is ready I'm just
gonna scoop this out with my tongs give
it a bit of a shake the excess drain off
and then put it onto a plate to cool so
grab your spaghetti or whatever pasta
you've got be nice with linguini tell
you tele it'd be nice for the shorter
shape as well and just get your pasta in
there and then we're just going to cook
the pasta until it's al dente so it's
not cooked all the way through still
retaining a little bit of bite so while
the pastas cooking and the sauce is
finishing off we're just gonna chop up
our purple sprouting properly which is
lovely and tender and you just want it
in kind of bite-sized pieces to go
through the
sauce okay so while our pasta is cooking
I'm just gonna show you this sauce which
is reduced down and it's looking now
lovely and silky and thick and I'm just
gonna add a little bit of sugar in there
just it's about a teaspoon of castor
sugar just because some tinned tomatoes
aren't that sweet and these were quite
budget tin tomato so it's just gonna
help with the sweetness and then I'm
gonna add in a spoonful of mascarpone
you could use double cream if you've got
any of that or creme fraiche or maybe
yogurt if not just a knob of butter is
good as well that's just gonna make this
really lovely and rich just stir that
through
[Music]
I'm gonna add in the purple spots and
repeat
good click find a black pepper
so that will together with the trees
though smarter
and that is looking a little lovely and
then what we're gonna do is add our
pasta into the pan just to finish it off
okay so the pasta is al dente so I'm
just gonna take it over to our sauce pan
and drain it straight from the pan into
the into the sauce sorry about that
buzzing it's the it's the induction off
so that's going straight in there and
you want to make sure that you're
getting some of the water in there as
well so I'm just washing it in but I'm
gonna just add in a little slush of the
cooking water from the pasta and then
you just want to bring it all together
here in the plan
and just combine everything in there so
you've got the pasta is actually
finishing off cooking in the sauce so
this is our finished pasta and then I'm
just gonna use my tongs this is quite a
good trick you just use the tongs to
twist it out of the pan and onto the
plate and that way you get a little bit
of everything and then I'm just gonna
finish off with some freshly ground
black pepper all over here and some of
our lovely crunchy caper crumb and there
we go this is our spicy tin tomato
spaghetti with purple sprouting broccoli
and crispy caper crumb
[Music]